1.

The mmap() system call creates a new memory mapping in the calling process’s virtual address space. A mapping can be of two types:
File mapping: A file mapping maps a region of a file directly into the calling process’s virtual memory. Once a file is mapped, its contents can be accessed by operations on the bytes in the corresponding memory region. The pages of the mapping are (automatically) loaded from the file as required. 


Anonymous mapping: An anonymous mapping doesn’t have a corresponding file. Instead, the pages of the mapping are initialized to 0.
(Another way of thinking of an anonymous mapping (and one is that is close to the truth) is that it is a mapping of a virtual file whose contents are always initialized with zeros).


Private mapping (MAP_PRIVATE): Modifications to the contents of the mapping are not visible to other processes and, for a file mapping, are not carried through to the underlying file. Although the pages of a private mapping are initially shared in the circumstances described above, changes to the contents of the mapping are nevertheless private to each process. The kernel accomplishes this using the copy-on-write technique (Section 24.2.2). This means that whenever a process attempts to modify the contents of a page, the kernel first creates a new, separate copy of that page for the process (and adjusts the process’s page tables). For this reason, a MAP_PRIVATE mapping is sometimes referred to as a private, copy-on-write mapping.

Shared mapping (MAP_SHARED): Modifications to the contents of the mapping are visible to other processes that share the same mapping and, for a file mapping, are carried through to the underlying file


the copy-on-write technique is employed, so that changes to the mapping by one process are invisible to other processes.

2.
Private file mapping:
The main use of this type of mapping is to initialize a region of memory from the contents of a file. Some common examples are initializing a process’s text and initialized data segments from the corresponding parts of a binary executable file or a shared library file.

Private anonymous mapping:
malloc() employs mmap() for this purpose when allocating large blocks of  memory

Shared file mapping:
. First, it permits memory-mapped I/O. By this, we mean that a file is loaded into a region of the process’s virtual memory, and modifications to that memory are automatically written to the file. Thus, memory-mapped I/O provides an alternative to using read() and write() for performing file I/O.
A second purpose of this type of mapping is to allow unrelated processes to share a region of memory in order to perform (fast) IPC in a manner similar to System V shared memory segments (Chapter 48).

Shared anonymous mapping:
 Shared anonymous mappings allow IPC in a manner similar to System V shared memory segments, but only between related processes.


void *mmap(void *addr, size_t length, int prot, int flags, int fd, off_t offset);
Private file mapping:
char *priv_file_map = (char *)mmap(NULL, 4096, PROT_NONE, MAP_FILE | MAP_PRIVATE, fd, 0);
Private anonymous mapping:
char *priv_anon_map = (char *)mmap(NULL, 4096, PROT_READ, MAP_PRIVATE | MAP_ANON, -1, 0);
Shared file mapping:
char *shar_file_map = (char *)mmap(NULL, 4096, PROT_WRITE, MAP_SHARED | MAP_FILE, fd, 0 );
Shared anonymous mapping:
char *shar_anon_map = (char *)mmap(NULL, 4096, PROT_EXEC, MAP_SHARED | MAP_ANON, -1, 0 );

fork:

private file:
copy-on-write technique is employed, so that changes to the mapping by one process are invisible to other processes.

private anonymous:
child process inherits its parent’s mappings, copy-on-write semantics ensure that, after the fork(), the parent and child don’t see changes made to the mapping by the other process

shared file:
All processes mapping the same region of a file share the same physical pages of memory, which are initialized from a file region. Modifications to the contents of the mapping are carried through to the file

shared anonymous:
child inherits the mapping after a fork(), the parent and child share the same pages of RAM, and changes made to the contents of the mapping by one process are visible to the other process

execve:

Any shared memory segments attached to the calling process image shall not be attached to the new process image.

Mappings are lost when a process performs an exec(),


Swap space in Linux is used when the amount of physical memory (RAM) is full. If the system needs more memory resources and the RAM is full, inactive pages in memory are moved to the swap space.

if you specify MMAP_PRIVATE in your call to mmap, swap space may be required to hold changed pages until you call msync.
Reserving swap space for a read-only private mapping is unnecessary: since the contents of the mapping can’t be modified, there is no need to employ swap space.Swap space is also not required for shared file mappings, because the mapped file it self acts as the swap space for the mapping.When a child process inherits a mapping across a fork(), it inherits theMAP_NORESERVE setting for the mapping.

